What is the problem with encode and decode? When is the extra byte added, and why? -> Whenever the compressed or meaningful bits modulo 8 (i.e. byte-size) is greater than 0. Then some nonsense bits need to be stored to the end of the encoding such that it can be stored via bytes. Decode however doesn't have any context around how many nonsense bits were added. For example, both a 7 (49 encoded bits) and 8 (56 encoded bits) character input can be encoded in 7 bytes (56 bit capacity -- 6 bytes would be 48 bit capacity)

Can you think of a way to fix the problem? Assume that you are allowed to change the file format used by encode and decode so that the number of bits added to the encoded file is bounded by a constant. (That is, the number of bits added should not depend on the original file size.) -> I think the best way would be to use a word to express end-of-encoding. Whilst this would make the encoding longer than the decoding for extremely short inputs (i.e. longer if 7 characters or less; same length if 16 characters or less), we're practically not concerned about such short inputs. And by including a terminating sequence character we have a fixed additional number of bits rather than a variable addition if we were to include, say, the number of words. Now the question is what to encode that doesn't interfere with an existing ASCII character? Assuming the NULL character (i.e. 0x0) isn't a valid character we need to encode, I would use that.

The better solution here would be to store padding length in a header of 1 byte in the encoded file.

Can you think of a fix that works even if the file is streaming? That is, suppose that you cannot see the whole file at once, but rather must begin producing output before the input ends. -> I understand the question, you must produce encoded output before you've read the entire file. Here a terminator works better.
I think this solution extends to this case as well. Decoder should assume meaningful bits encoding words of 7 bit length until it encounters the NULL character, which implies the previous character was the last in the original file.
